---
slug: article7
date: 2012-01-30 16:50:27
title: 
author: radu<raducu.popovici@gmail.com>
tags: 
type: answer
toslug: article3
---
<p>This is a very sensitive subject because it borders on animal cruelty. Let's classify the solutions by impact on the population, cost and time to desired result:</p>
<p>Solution 1: Eliminate all the strays</p>
<ul>
<li>impact - major / mostly negative; cost - moderate / high; time to desired result - minimal</li>
</ul>
<p>The impact on the population is major, this is (almost) the worst scenario of animal cruelty, you will most likely have protests against this decision. But those protests won't be from people who were scared for life by a stray dog, or for ones that lost a family member or a child because of this. Urged by a spirit of revenge they will support this decision because "the faster you get rid of them, the better".
The cost is moderate / high, assuming it will be done properly and the animals will not suffer and will be disposed of accordingly.
The results will be seen from the first week, so the time to desired result is minimal.</p>
<p>Solution 2: Neuter all the strays</p>
<ul>
<li>impact - low / medium / positive; cost - low / medium; time to desired result - very long</li>
</ul>
<p>The majority of the population already sees this as the best solution to this problem so it will not protest, it will most likely be seen as "the right thing to do".
The cost may be the lowest of these solution since it only takes a routine operation and a tag.
The problem is with the time to the desired result which could take years (assuming that all dogs have been neutered). Take into account that you have to neuter many times more dogs than the growth rate to make a visible impact. This is why this solution fails most of the time.</p>
<p>Solution 3: A way to put them to good use (Mostly idealistic)</p>
<ul>
<li>impact, cost, time: vary on idea</li>
</ul>
<p>One idea would be to train them as police dogs, firemen dogs, border patrol dogs. (Not sure if plausible for adult dogs). It would clean the streets and help fight crime. The smaller dogs could sniff for drugs or find people in a fire incident or avalanche. They would be well taken care of, given a home and a meaning.</p>
<p>Another idea would be to offer a (monthly) monetary incentive to those families that adopt them as a pet and take good care of them. This would mean that somebody would have to check on the pets' well being. (More jobs :D)
If anything else pops up, I'll be sure to post it.</p>
<p>The question remains: If this problem is solved... Will stray cats become a problem?</p>
<p>To sum up: The best solution is the one you see through!!! </p>
<p>Enforcing / Killing / Neutering only half the dogs will work if it's the entire male half, or the female one. Otherwise, they will keep breeding.</p>
