---
slug: article42
date: 2013-11-14 10:45:58
title: 
author: FlorinPanaitescu<florin.panaitescu@gmail.com>
tags: 
type: answer
toslug: article19
---
<p>Defending gun-user: Own protection is not an argument. Criminality cannot be decreased if normal, peacefull people are wearing guns with them. If the attackers would know the victim is wearing a gun, then they will attack with most powerful guns. So this is not a solution for decreasing criminality or increase self-defense. </p>
<p>Guns production: The system (legal authority) is far from having a good solution for control the production and usage of guns and it will be much difficult with 3-D printers to control this. Banning production won't help on a long term.</p>
<p>Attacking gun-users: Assuming they want to succeed in their robbery mission and knowing anyone can have a gun (including normal, peaceful people) they will use (at least) a gun. They have enough lightness in using guns because: they have many opportunities to acquire a gun (even online) and they are not afraid of legal consequences (the penalties for having or using a gun are too light). So a positiveness  in attacking might come from the confidence that they have a gun.</p>
<p>Authorities: They should act indirectly against guns by increasing a lot more the punishments for having or using a gun. Granting licenses for owning guns is granting license for using guns. No one would buy a gun for home decoration.</p>
<p>My conclusion: People should not own guns for defense.</p>
